First steps for modeling relational data in DynamoDB - Amazon DynamoDB View a markdown version of this page First steps for modeling relational data in DynamoDB - Amazon DynamoDB Documentation Amazon DynamoDB Developer Guide First steps for modeling relational data in DynamoDB Note NoSQL design requires a different mindset than RDBMS design. For an RDBMS, you can create a normalized data model without thinking about access patterns. You can then extend it later when new questions and query requirements arise. By contrast, in Amazon DynamoDB, you shouldn't start designing your schema until you know the questions that it needs to answer. Understanding the business problems and the application use cases up front is absolutely essential. To start designing a DynamoDB table that will scale efficiently, you must take several steps first to identify the access patterns that are required by the operations and business support systems (OSS/BSS) that it needs to support: For new applications, review user stories about activities and objectives. Document the various use cases you identify, and analyze the access patterns that they require. For existing applications, analyze query logs to find out how people are currently using the system and what the key access patterns are. After completing this process, you should end up with a list that might look something like the following. Access Patterns for Order Entry Application Pattern # Access Pattern Description 1 Look up Employee Details by Employee ID 2 Query Employee Details by Employee Name 3 Find an Employee's Phone Number(s) 4 Find a Customer's Phone Number(s) 5 Get Orders for Customer within Date Range 6 Show all Open Orders within Date Range 7 See all Employees hired recently 8 Find all Employees in Warehouse 9 Get all Items on Order for Product 10 Get Inventories for Product at all Warehouses 11 Get Customers by Account Rep 12 Get Orders by Account Rep 13 Get Employees with Job Title 14 Get Inventory by Product and Warehouse 15 Get Total Product Inventory In a real application, your list might be much longer. But this collection represents the range of query pattern complexity that you might find in a production environment. A modern approach to DynamoDB schema design uses aggregate-oriented principles, grouping data based on access patterns rather than rigid entity boundaries. This approach considers multiple design patterns: Single Table Design - Using composite sort keys, overloaded global secondary indexes, and adjacency list patterns to store multiple entity types in one table Multi-Table Design - Using separate tables for entities with independent operational characteristics and low access correlation, with strategic GSIs for cross-entity queries Aggregate Design - Embedding related data when always accessed together (Order + OrderItems) or using item collections for identifying relationships (Product + Inventory) The choice between these approaches depends on your specific access patterns, data characteristics, and operational requirements. You can use these elements to structure the data so that an application can retrieve whatever it needs for a given access pattern using a single query on a table or index. Note The choice between single-table and multi-table design depends on your specific requirements. Single-table design works well when entities have high access correlation and similar operational characteristics. Multi-table design is preferred when entities have independent operational requirements, different access patterns, or when you need clear operational boundaries. The example in this guide demonstrates a multi-table approach with strategic aggregation and denormalization. To use NoSQL Workbench for DynamoDB to help visualize your partition key design, see Building data models with NoSQL Workbench . Document Conventions Relational modeling Example Did this page help you? - Yes Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job! If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of it. Did this page help you? - No Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down. If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation better.
