Inference request parameters and response fields for foundation models - Amazon Bedrock View a markdown version of this page Inference request parameters and response fields for foundation models - Amazon Bedrock Documentation Amazon Bedrock User Guide Inference request parameters and response fields for foundation models The topics in this section describe the request parameters and response fields for the models that Amazon Bedrock supplies. When you make inference calls to models with the model invocation ( InvokeModel , InvokeModelWithResponseStream , Converse , and ConverseStream ) API operations, you include request parameters depending on the model that you're using. If you created a custom model , use the same inference parameters as the foundation model from which it was customized. If you are importing a customized model into Amazon Bedrock , make sure to use the same inference parameters that is mentioned for the customized model you are importing. If you are using inference parameters that do not match with the inference parameters mentioned for that model in this documentation, those parameters will be ignored. Before viewing model parameters for different models, you should familiarize yourself with what model inference is by reading the following chapter: Making inference requests . Refer to the following pages for more information about different models in Amazon Bedrock: For a table of models and their IDs to use with the model invocation API operations, the Regions they're supported in, and the general features that they support, see Supported foundation models in Amazon Bedrock . For a table of the Amazon Bedrock Regions that each model is supported in, see Model support by AWS Region in Amazon Bedrock . For a table of the Amazon Bedrock features that each model supports, see Model support by feature in Amazon Bedrock . To check if the Converse API ( Converse and ConverseStream ) supports a specific model, see models at a glance . When you make inference calls to a model, you include a prompt for the model. For general information about creating prompts for the models that Amazon Bedrock supports, see Prompt engineering concepts . For code examples, see Code examples for Amazon Bedrock using AWS SDKs . Select a topic to learn about models for that provider and their parameters. Topics Amazon Nova models Amazon Titan models Anthropic Claude models AI21 Labs models Cohere models DeepSeek models Luma AI models Meta Llama models Mistral AI models OpenAI models Stability AI models TwelveLabs models Writer AI Palmyra models Document Conventions Advanced inference topics Amazon Nova models Did this page help you? - Yes Thanks for letting us know we're doing a good job! If you've got a moment, please tell us what we did right so we can do more of it. Did this page help you? - No Thanks for letting us know this page needs work. We're sorry we let you down. If you've got a moment, please tell us how we can make the documentation better.
